Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “The Art of the Flail,” by Paul Krugman (column, April 6): The problem with the Trump administration is that except for the hard-core followers, whose intentions are clear, we simply do not trust these officials. So the shifting of news from tariffs to the border with Mexico, to stories of corruption, whether political or financial or a combination of the two, to stories of payoffs to keep people quiet, and back and forth we go. The trillion-dollar question is whether the confusion is by design or simply confusion and incompetence. And if intentional, then for whose benefit? And so there is threat of war in the air most days, and that means every kind of war, including trade wars, wars against immigrants, wars against the news media, renewed cold wars or arms races. And even those may simply be imagined for the profits of a few or due to a dangerous incompetence. We probably won’t know until the consequences play out. BRUCE NEUMAN, WATER MILL, N.Y. To the Editor: Stumbling into a trade war would be a huge mistake. History and research show that a trade war cannot be won, and should never be fought. “Chief of W.T.O. Worries About Its Role as Peacekeeper as a Trade War Brews” (news article, March 24) notes that President Trump’s planned tariffs against China are circumventing the World Trade Organization’s rules-based trading system, which Mr. Trump said “has actually been a disaster for us.” But American repudiation of the W.T.O. will not render it irrelevant if the rest of the world continues to work within its framework. If the United States goes rogue in the world trading system, its trading partners are free to work to maintain the global system and the W.T.O. as an institution, just as they did on climate change after President Trump announced that the United States would pull out of the Paris climate accord. In fact, they have every reason to do so, with or without the United States. SHERMAN ROBINSON, WASHINGTON The writer is a nonresident senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. To the Editor: Re “Mr. Trump’s Flawed Border Plan” (editorial, April 5): Again we hear of another of President Trump’s childish military games for our country. The question has to be, Where are the parents? When parents allow children to run amok in the grocery store, we all know what happens: chaos! CAROLEANN EITTREIMPALO ALTO, CALIF. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 