Advertisement Supported by Europe Edition By Jennifer Jett Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump signed legislation imposing new sanctions on Russia, but he asserted that the bill, which also includes sanctions on Iran and North Korea, was “significantly flawed,” raising questions about how he would enforce it. Vice President Mike Pence, speaking in Montenegro, committed American support to eight Balkan nations and warned against Russian encroachment in the region. Russia, he said, is an “unpredictable country that casts a shadow from the east.” Separately, Mr. Trump voiced support for legislation that would overhaul decades of immigration policy — replacing a system that favors an immigrant’s family ties with one that favors skills and employability. And the White House admitted that Mr. Trump had not, as he claimed, received phone calls full of praise from the head of the Boy Scouts or the president of Mexico. _____ • The Vatican has accused American Catholic ultraconservatives of making an alliance of “hate” with evangelical Christians to back President Trump. Two close associates of Pope Francis, writing in a Vatican-vetted journal, said the U.S. church was out of step with mainstream Catholicism and risked corrupting the faith by trying to inject “religious influence in the political sphere.” Critics already alienated by the pope’s policies have called the article anti-American. Evangelical Christians are among the conservative groups that the Trump administration has made a special effort to keep close. _____ • The rebel army in Syria was already a shell by the time President Trump decided last month to shut down a covert U.S. program to arm and train the rebels. The four-year effort had been viewed dimly in both the Trump and Obama White Houses. Thousands of Syrian militants and refugees, like those above, are returning home under a cease-fire deal. But Idlib Province, where they are being taken, is largely controlled by jihadists, raising concerns for their safety. _____ • A breakthrough in science: Genes in human embryos have for the first time been successfully edited to repair a disease-causing mutation. The milestone raises the prospect that one day children may be protected from hereditary conditions — but it is also sure to renew ethical concerns that some might try to design babies with certain traits, like greater intelligence or athleticism. _____ • Nations are coming together to protect marine life in international waters. But a new governing body to regulate the high seas is likely to collide with hard-knuckled diplomatic bargaining and powerful commercial interests, including the fishing industries in countries like Russia, Norway, China and Japan. Treaty negotiations at the U.N. could begin as early as 2018. • As the rest of Europe turns against diesel technology, automakers and political leaders in Germany appear determined to save it. Above, a protester in Berlin. • Despite political disorder, Wall Street and corporate America are booming, with the Dow Jones industrial average surpassing 22,000 for the first time. “None of the soap opera in Washington matters,” one executive said. • Aging tech giants like Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet, the parent of Google, continue to post strong growth despite their tremendous size. What’s their secret? • The electric-car maker Tesla reported widening losses in the second quarter as it prepares to introduce the Model 3, its first mass-market vehicle. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • Prince Philip, above, 96, made his final solo public appearance before retiring from his official duties as the consort of Queen Elizabeth II. [The New York Times] • President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey approved new leaders for the army, navy and air force, rewarding officers who remained loyal to him during a failed coup last year. [The New York Times] • Qatar is buying seven Italian warships, suggesting that its feud with four neighbors in the Persian Gulf shows little sign of abating. [The New York Times] • Sberbank, a Russian state bank being sued in U.S. federal court by a Russian businessman, has hired Marc E. Kasowitz, the longtime personal attorney to President Trump, as its lead defense counsel. [The New York Times] • Brazilian lawmakers voted against putting President Michel Temer on trial on corruption charges. [The New York Times] • The Venezuelan government altered the turnout for its election by at least one million votes, a software company involved with the voting system said. [The New York Times] • Ruins uncovered near Vienne, France, have been called “probably the most exceptional find from the Roman era in years.” [The New York Times] • An anti-immigrant group in Norway was ridiculed after members mistook a photograph of six empty bus seats for a group of women wearing burqas. [The Guardian] • Neymar, the Brazilian soccer forward, is expected to complete the richest transfer in the sport’s history this week when he moves to Paris Saint-Germain from Barcelona. The $263 million transfer fee alone will more than double the previous record. [The New York Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Tips and tools for the perfect road trip. •  The key to surviving lavish weddings is to let any embarrassing moments slide off you like good caviar. • Recipe of the day: If you need a break, store-bought roast chicken and cold rice noodles are the way to go. • “Disneyland on the Sea”: Officials in Venice worry that the famed, sinking city is being further swamped by a “low-quality tourism” that is making life almost unbearable for residents. • In memoriam: Denis Mack Smith, the pre-eminent British writer on modern Italy, has died at 97; and Gösta Peterson, a Swedish-born fashion photographer whose subjects included the black model Naomi Sims and the English sensation Twiggy, has died at 94. • Over two-thirds of Americans are overweight or obese, but dieting has fallen out of favor. The Times Magazine examines the agonies of carrying extra weight. Al Jazeera was recently thrust into the spotlight after a Saudi-led bloc demanded its shutdown as part of a continuing blockade against Qatar. The news organization is no stranger to controversy. Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the former emir of Qatar, founded the network in 1996 as an alternative, independent platform in the region. Al Jazeera (“the Peninsula” in Arabic) refers to the Arabian Peninsula, comprising seven Arab nations in southwest Asia. Al Jazeera English, above, began in 2006. Al Jazeera America, unveiled in 2013, shuttered operations in 2016. While most of the Arab news media is controlled or censored by governments, Al Jazeera has drawn praise, and ire, as the first Arabic-language network to air voices critical of authoritarian regimes (although it steers clear of denouncing Qatar or members of its royal family). It has conducted interviews with Israeli politicians and members of the Taliban, and broadcast speeches from Osama bin Laden. After four Arab nations blocked access to Al Jazeera websites in June, the network responded with an open letter: “Countries such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt and the U.A.E. may silence their own media,” it reads, “but because Al Jazeera is watched by so many people in the Arab world, they want us gone.” Sara Aridi contributed reporting. _____ This briefing was prepared for the European morning. You can browse through past briefings here. We also have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 