Advertisement Supported by By Maya Salam and Heather Casey Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The Justice Department is charging forward with President Trump’s agenda, even as Attorney General Jeff Sessions, above, is often the subject of his criticism. Two big announcements — on affirmative action and leak investigations — grabbed the nation’s attention last week. The department intends to investigate whether universities discriminate against white applicants. It may also review a private lawsuit against Harvard that alleges diversity initiatives have in effect restricted Asian-American admissions. We examined how strategies in college admissions have evolved. Regarding leaks, Mr. Sessions vowed to bring criminal charges against those who give classified information to the news media. ____ 2. President Trump is backing a bill that would slash the number of legal immigrants coming to the United States by 41 percent in its first year. The proposal would place skills, education and language ability above family ties, and would be the most far-reaching change to legal immigration in decades. The administration’s stance has helped drive so many asylum seekers to Canada that authorities there opened a temporary welcome center in Montreal’s 56,000-seat Olympic Stadium, above. ____ 3. Investigators working for the special prosecutor Robert Mueller have asked the administration to hand over documents on Michael Flynn, above, the first such request. They are looking into whether Mr. Flynn, the former national security adviser, was secretly paid by Turkey during the presidential campaign. John Kelly, the new White House chief of staff, is on a mission to impose military discipline on the faction-ridden White House. On his first day, he fired Anthony Scaramucci, the communications director. ____ 4. Discord among Republicans isn’t helping to buoy the administration’s reputation. And some G.O.P. members are already eyeing a presidential run in 2020. Above, President Trump met with senators in June. Despite Mr. Trump’s many strained relations lately, there’s one group that has never really wavered: the leaders of the conservative movement. Here’s how writers on the right and left are thinking about the administrative state. ____ 5. The U.S. economy gave President Trump a significant bright spot last week. The stock market hit record highs, foreign corporations announced new American plants, and the unemployment rate fell to a 16-year low. ____ 6. Congress forced President Trump to sign legislation that imposed sanctions on Russia for meddling in the 2016 presidential election, heightening already tense relations with Moscow. Lawmakers passed it with bipartisan, veto-proof majorities. The measure also includes sanctions on Iran and North Korea. On Friday, Mr. Trump headed to New Jersey for a 17-day working vacation while the White House undergoes a $3.4 million renovation. President Vladimir Putin, above, also took a vacation. In Siberia. ____ 7. In Venezuela, the new governing assembly created by last week’s referendum moved swiftly to consolidate power. Luisa Ortega, the attorney general and one of the most vocal critics of President Nicolás Maduro, was removed from her post on Saturday. Above, Ms. Ortega retreated on a motorbike after security forces blocked her from entering her office. ____ 8. Genes in human embryos have been successfully edited to repair a common and serious disease-causing mutation for the first time. The breakthrough has renewed ethical concerns about the possibility of “designer babies,” but such fears are closer to science fiction than science, experts say. Our magazine examined a different health concern in the modern world: weight loss in an anti-dieting culture. ____ 9. A win for environmentalists: The E.P.A. reversed its decision to give states extra time to meet a new ozone pollution standard. The change reverts the deadline to Oct. 1, which was set by the Obama administration. Extreme heat this summer has been engulfing regions of the U.S., including the Northwest, where temperatures exceeded 100 degrees, and the South, where heat has become a workplace hazard. Above, smog over the Salt Lake City area. ____ 10. The 2028 Summer Olympics will be held in Los Angeles; the last time the United States hosted a Games was in 2002. The 2024 Games will be in Paris. But the world’s fastest man, Usain Bolt, above, will be done competing by then — or so he says. Bolt finished a surprising third on Saturday in what he insists was his final 100-meter race. The winner was Justin Gatlin. ____ 11. Finally, another school year is quickly approaching. Here’s the back-to-school technology worth having, and what to skip. Nervous about your new roommate situation? Discussing stress management, respecting common spaces and tempering your expectations can help make the relationship a success. Have a great week. ____ If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes. You can also view this version. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p.m. Eastern. Want to look back? You can browse past Morning and Evening Briefings.  What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 