Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “Putin’s Hopes for Relief Under a Trump Presidency Backfire Spectacularly” (news analysis, July 31): I strongly disagree. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is playing the long game, a game that Trump and Company cannot even understand. I have believed all along that Mr. Putin’s goal was never to put a “friend” in the White House. Rather, it has always been to disrupt and weaken the United States and our democracy. What better way to do this than to help put an inexperienced, incompetent narcissist and his cronies in charge of our country? Mr. Putin is succeeding, even beyond his dreams. There has been no backfire. EUGENE A. SCANLANSECHELT, BRITISH COLUMBIA To the Editor: President Vladimir V. Putin is more prescient than your news analysis gives him credit for. Since Inauguration Day, the White House has been nothing but tumultuous infighting, a series of high-profile ousters (or resignations), and innumerable scandals, not all of which involve Russia. Congress has no significant legislative achievements; Syria remains mired in brutal conflict; North Korea is closer than ever to establishing itself as a serious nuclear power; and Donald Trump has spent more than 20 percent of his days as president playing golf. To suggest that Russia has not achieved anything here is shortsighted. While the world laughs at the latest gaffe in the White House, Russia has comfort in knowing that much of the spotlight is diverted to Mr. Trump. Putting aside the freedom this gives Mr. Putin to achieve his own geopolitical goals, this in and of itself is a victory for him and for Russia. COLIN WOLFGANG, JERSEY CITY To the Editor: It is ironic that Donald Trump has always puffed himself up as a great negotiator, when in fact skilled negotiation is exactly and urgently what we need at this moment in global history, regarding North Korea especially, but many others, too, along with other challenges. THOMAS PITONIAKWESTFIELD, MASS. To the Editor: There is only one good thing Donald Trump has ever done, and that was to try to increase détente with Russia. Now, forces within the United States, not least the Democratic Party, have driven the reimposition of sanctions on Russia. Russia in fact is very weak, but it does possess nuclear arms, like the United States. And it does have legitimate fear that NATO’s advance toward its border could threaten it. This new cold war is a game that could end with the annihilation of life on earth. ELLEN CANTAROW, NEW YORK Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 