Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “Trump’s Son Heard of Link to Moscow Before Meeting” (front page, July 11): When is enough enough? Here we have a presidential candidate’s son meeting with a representative of America’s chief enemy, a representative of a government that is inimical to every democratic value that we like to think is the basis of American exceptionalism. The apparent purpose of the meeting was to gather information to sway the election, and the son says it soon became evident that the Russian lawyer had no information (can you not almost hear the disappointment?). Perhaps this does not meet the legal definition of collusion, but it meets one of the oldest human tests of corruption: It stinks. NATHAN COHEN, LARKSPUR, CALIF. To the Editor: Re “Trump Team Met Russian Offering Dirt on Clinton” (front page, July 10): The true agenda all along, says Donald Trump Jr., was the adoption of Russian babies, banned by the Kremlin in retaliation for American sanctions. But why would a Russian lawyer resort to a sleazy-sounding trick to get a meeting about a humanitarian topic, and why would she try for Donald Trump Jr.? Did he have any known interest in the issue? And why would the contact not wait out the campaign and simply meet openly with a relevant person in the administration after the hoped-for election of President Trump? Donald Trump Jr.’s feeble explanation was quickly changed, but its brief existence insulted our intelligence. E. MARIANNE GABEL DELAWARE, OHIO To the Editor: The obsession with Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election is mind-numbing. Donald Trump won; Hillary Clinton lost. Period. Ever since the 1963 James Bond film, “From Russia With Love,” Americans learned pablum-style that Russia spies on us and we spy on Russia. No Russian intelligence official stood outside my polling place offering me a bribe or threatened me to vote against Hillary Clinton. I did that all on my own. I wonder what was told to Hillary Clinton in those 30,000 emails that were erased from her private, secret and unauthorized email server. Where were your investigative reporters on that story? ANTONIA TAMPLIN, BRONX To the Editor: The reason that evidence of collusion, no matter how strong, will not elicit any real response from congressional Republicans is this: Their party’s base believes that if it took the Kremlin to keep Hillary Clinton out of the White House and to get Donald Trump in, fine. THOMAS PEYSER, RICHMOND, VA. To the Editor: The revelations about Donald Trump’s corruption are coming fast and furious, but nothing will come of it unless the Republican Party decides to put country above party. This doesn’t seem too much to ask of a party that doesn’t know what it stands for until it reads its Twitter feed each morning. But I am guessing hell will freeze over first. ROBERT MILLSAP  WOODLAND, CALIF. To the Editor: Re “The Culture of Dishonesty” (editorial, July 11): I do not remember a time in American history when so many of the people close to a president have had to hire lawyers to defend themselves against potential charges of collusion with a foreign government. Not exactly how to make America great again. DORIS FENIG, FLORAL PARK, N.Y. To the Editor: It must be magic to raise children in a household where probity has no meaning. “Not me” is the most valuable invisible friend any child can have. DAVID VANDERPOOL, CINCINNATI Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 