Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press CLEVELAND — Mike Brown happily slid into his normal seat to the left of Golden State Warriors Coach Steve Kerr for Game 2 of the N.B.A. finals. For the first time in weeks, the team was whole again. Brown has moved before — not always so willingly — and during the next few days, he will return to a familiar place. Brown, a well-liked top assistant at Golden State, arrived there after two stints as a head coach during which he nurtured a young LeBron James and then a pampered Kobe Bryant. Now the Warriors are traveling to Cleveland, the city that shaped Brown more than any other. It is where he was hired twice and fired twice by the Cavaliers, who are paying him until 2020, and where he raised his two sons. It is where he rooted himself in the community and stayed after losing his job in 2014, and where he still has a home and keeps one of his Harley-Davidson motorcycles, which he took for cruises along Lake Erie to clear his mind. “He loves those Harleys,” Warriors forward Draymond Green said. “That just means he has them in every city he goes to. That’s an addiction.” When Game 3 tips off Wednesday night, with the Warriors holding a two-games-to-none lead, Brown will be back in the building where he and James appeared in their first finals 10 years ago. In 2007 the Cavaliers were no match for the powerful San Antonio Spurs, who overwhelmed Cleveland and swept the series. “Circle of life,” Brown said last week. “Like the ‘Lion King,’ everything comes back around, I guess.” For Brown, 47, his finals debut must seem like a lifetime ago. This postseason he guided the Warriors to an 11-0 record while Kerr battled intense pain stemming from back operations. “My guy did O.K. while I was gone,” Kerr said after the Warriors won Sunday night. During last year’s finals in Cleveland, Brown met with Kerr about joining the Warriors’ staff to replace Luke Walton, who was named the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers. The interview came before the Cavaliers rallied from a three-games-to-one deficit, and before Kevin Durant announced he was headed to Golden State. After Brown was fired for the second time by the Cavaliers, he had stepped outside the coaching circle, choosing to watch his oldest son, Elijah, play basketball at New Mexico and filming the high school football games of his other son, Cameron. All the while, he stayed connected by talking with San Antonio Coach Gregg Popovich, his mentor and former boss. Popovich urged him to join Kerr. Brown’s willingness to accept an assistant’s job despite 563 regular-season wins — and 47 in the playoffs — underscores his humility. Last week, the Cavaliers All-Star guard Kyrie Irving said he wished his time with Brown had been longer. “I was a 21-year-old kid, just trying to lead a franchise, and he was a new head coach that I had to get introduced to a new offense, new players, as well as a new system,” Irving said. “I kind of regret being part of that because he was just trying to teach me a lot of things that I didn’t necessarily understand as a 21-year-old. So he definitely had some great things, and the knowledge of the game that’s up there with some great coaches.” Brown could be in demand again. Kerr’s health may prompt a reshuffling at Golden State, and there are certain to be other coaching vacancies. Yet Brown is not in any hurry to pack up, and he is not viewing his trip to Cleveland as anything more than business. “I’m not looking at this as Cleveland fired me twice, this is the time to get back at them, or is there any extra incentive?” he said. “I just want to win. I just want to be a part of a winning program and be the last team, quote-unquote, standing.”     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 