Advertisement Supported by Warriors 132, Cavaliers 113 | Warriors lead the series, 2-0 By Harvey Araton OAKLAND, Calif. — If welcoming back Steve Kerr, their ailing coach, were not enough to inspire the Golden State Warriors on Sunday night, Klay Thompson timed the return of his missing shooting touch for the occasion of a 132-113 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers and a two-games-to-none lead in the N.B.A. finals. The sight of Kerr, who had not coached since early in the postseason as he dealt with complications from back surgery in 2015, roused the sellout crowd at Oracle Arena. But it was the 3-point shooting fireworks by Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant and, finally, Thompson that electrified the fans and deflated the Cavs, who go home now for Game 3 on Wednesday night, positioned where they were last year, when they rallied to win the title in seven games. How they gather themselves to deal with the tornado the Warriors have become with Durant remains to be seen. In Game 2, Curry exploded for the first playoff triple-double of his career: 32 points, 10 rebounds, 11 assists. Durant continued his dominance with 33 points and 13 rebounds, and Thompson, who made just 3 of 16 Game 1 shots, added 22 points. In all, the Warriors — 14-0 in this postseason — made 18 3-point shots, riddling the Cavaliers from outside after destroying them in the lane in Game 1. LeBron James had a triple-double of his own to lead the Cavaliers with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 14 assists, though he faltered in the fourth quarter, and Kevin Love had 27 points. Of his first game back, Kerr said, “That’s what makes it fun, to be on the sidelines, feel the energy.” A fair amount was provided by his players after they heard — though not from him — that Kerr was back. “I heard when I got to the arena that he was doing his press conference,” Curry said. “For me, social media tells you everything,” said Draymond Green, who learned of Kerr’s return by checking his smartphone. “It was obviously great to have him back on the sideline — still business as usual.” While the Warriors were heartened to have Kerr back, the Cavaliers motivated themselves with the belief, or hope, that the beating they took in Game 1 was just a slap in the figurative face, a cruel but beneficial reminder that the Eastern Conference portion of the playoffs had been the equivalent of prepping to fight a heavyweight champion by sparring with a lightweight. “You cannot simulate what they bring to the table, no matter how many days you have to prepare,” James said. “I’ve seen a lot of great teams, and they rank right up there.” The Cavs talked bravely about how they had sabotaged themselves with 20 turnovers in Game 1, how they would, with 48 minutes of adjustment time under their belts, match the Warriors’ intensity and pace. Even Kerr acknowledged that the Cavaliers’ turnovers in Game 1 — and the Warriors’ contrasting number — had been an anomaly. “So we don’t expect to force 20 turnovers, we don’t expect to only have four ourselves,” he said. He was right about his team, which would turn the ball over eight times in the first quarter alone and 20 for the game, providing Kerr the opportunity to find something to complain about. “We play the same game in Cleveland, we’re not going to win,” he said. Even with all the giveaways, the Warriors still were a virtual tidal wave of offense. The Cavs had promised to tighten up their interior defense but wound up surrendering five 3-pointers — three by Durant and two by Curry, who also did serious damage from the free-throw line, hitting 10 straight en route to a 15-point first quarter. The slumping Thompson hit two of his first three shots and continued harassing Kyrie Irving, who scored one basket in the quarter and had a jumper blocked from behind by Durant, leading to a Durant basket off the kind of run-out the Cavaliers had been hoping to avoid. When the quarter ended, the Warriors, albeit sloppy, had dropped 40 points on the Cavaliers and had a 6-point lead that they soon extended to 12, at 50-38. But James, as Kerr said, was on a King-size mission, carrying the Cavs, finding Love and others for open looks and layups, embellishing a first-half stat line that would read this way at the half: 18 points, 10 assists, 6 rebounds and 2 steals. Leading at the break by 3, the Warriors tried early in the third to put the Cavs away, opening an 83-73 lead as Curry hit a 3; two free throws, after baiting J. R. Smith into a foul; and a driving layup, after dribbling James dizzy in a defensive switch — “like a chicken without a head,” Curry said of that madcap possession. But James retaliated with a 3-pointer, added a driving lefty layup and found Irving breaking behind the pack for a layup, closing Cleveland’s deficit to 86-82. What the Warriors have proved — and even more so since adding Durant — is that they land punches in lethal combinations. That 4-point lead grew to 6 on two free throws by Shaun Livingston; then 9, on a Durant break layup and free throw off Curry’s deflection of a James pass to the post; then 11, when Curry took a rebound upcourt and found Livingston filling the left lane. The rout was on in the fourth quarter and even James could not stop it. “Every mistake you make, they make you pay,” Tyronn Lue, the Cavaliers’ coach, said. “You saw that tonight.” As on every game night during this unblemished playoff season.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 