Advertisement Supported by On Pro Basketball By Harvey Araton OAKLAND, Calif. — Welcome to the 2017 N.B.A. finals, Round 3 of the league’s biggest perpetual mismatch in more than three decades. Statistically speaking, that is. For three straight years, the Cleveland Cavaliers have blown through three playoff rounds of the competitively malnourished Eastern Conference and arrived in the championship series with regular-season records that paled compared to those of the Western Conference champion Golden State Warriors. The disparities in victories — 14 two years ago, 16 last season and 16 again this season — fall short of the largest in history: the 24-game advantages Milwaukee held over Baltimore in 1971 and Philadelphia had on the San Francisco Warriors in 1967. But not since the 1986 season (Boston over Houston) has there been an advantage as large as 16 games, and not since 1981, when Boston defeated a Houston team that had 22 fewer wins, has there been one greater. The Golden State-Cleveland difference over a three-year span is an extended, lopsided gap the likes of which the N.B.A. has never seen. And with one unprecedented statistical upset already in the books — the Cavaliers’ rallying from a three-games-to-one deficit in last year’s finals against a 73-victory Warriors club — LeBron James and company entered Game 1 on Thursday night at Oracle Arena with an opportunity to build on their unusual achievement. Many would argue that part of what the Cavaliers proved last year was that regular-season N.B.A. results are virtually irrelevant — particularly when star players rest on a handful of nights across the long and winding road to the playoffs. And regular-season injuries to a pivotal player can also distort a finals matchup, as when the title-winning Knicks had a 60-46 edge on the Lakers in 1970, after Wilt Chamberlain had played in only 12 regular-season games for Los Angeles before returning for the playoffs. The numbers otherwise indicate that the teams reaching the finals have usually been fairly close in regular-season achievement, especially over the last 40 years, when league expansion made it less likely to have one conference without a powerhouse club. But there have been other twists. When James carried the Cavaliers to the 2007 finals after winning 50 regular-season games, they were swept by the 58-win San Antonio Spurs, who benefited from the Warriors’ first-round takedown of top-seeded Dallas, a 67-victory team that season. And when the Rockets, led by Moses Malone, carried a sub-.500 record (40-42) all the way to the finals in 1981 they faced that 22-game differential against the Celtics, who claimed the first of the three titles they went on to win with Larry Bird. Making a habit of postseason overachievement, the Rockets, led by Hakeem Olajuwon, found themselves in the same kind of anomalous predicament in the 1995 finals — defending a title while meeting a team (Orlando) with a double-digit advantage in regular-season wins (57-47) — that James and the Cavaliers appear to be in now. Houston, which was seeded No. 6 in the West and had reached the finals after beating Utah (62 wins), Phoenix (59) and San Antonio (62) proceeded to sweep Shaquille O’Neal and the Magic. Until last season, that ’95 finals triumph by Houston — in terms of the regular-season victory deficit overcome — was second only to Golden State’s upset of Washington in 1975 after winning 12 fewer games. When Houston defended its title against Orlando, the Magic had never advanced that far in the postseason. The Cavaliers, conversely, are up against a team they barely beat in seven games a year ago, a feat that was helped along by the Game 5 suspension of Golden State’s Draymond Green. Some have disregarded Cleveland’s good, but hardly great, 51-31 record this season by noting that James not only rested on occasion but also coasted through the last 20 games or so before shifting into postseason gear. But the Warriors played 16 games this season without Kevin Durant, a player widely considered the next best to James. And in the end, Golden State recorded its third straight season of 65-plus victories. “They’ve been right at the top, best team in the league for three years straight now, super-impressive,” the Cavaliers’ Kevin Love said during the buildup to the finals. But he added: “The whole underdog thing is funny to me, because yeah, at the end of the day we are defending our title.” If they do it against these upgraded Warriors, it would be high time for less data and more declaration. Provided he performs as he did in the final three games last year, James would belong on basketball’s Mount Rushmore for puncturing the regular season as no one has before.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 