Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAJUNE 8, 2017  CLEVELAND — Draymond Green, human megaphone and starting forward for the Golden State Warriors, thought back on Thursday to an instance earlier this season when his teammate Kevin Durant expressed frustration with his own level of play. Durant was new to the Warriors, and perhaps he was pressing. Green, who has seen (and done) a bit of everything in his five seasons with the team, went over to offer some perspective. “Hey, my friend,” Green recalled telling Durant. “To be honest with you, we don’t really need you that much in the regular season. But you know, when those N.B.A. finals come around, we’re really going to need you to play big for us.” Durant, Green said, seemed reassured. And given Durant’s brilliant play so far in the finals, with the Warriors one victory from returning home to the Bay Area for another championship parade, that early-season conversation may have made a difference — or at least it did, according to Green. Advertisement “He’s been playing big for us,” Green said of Durant, “so I guess I’m a genius.” Green, in his own inimitable way, has left his imprint on the Warriors again this season. In the finals, with his rebounding, passing and defending, he has helped steer them to a 3-0 series lead against the Cleveland Cavaliers. Game 4 is scheduled for Friday night at Quicken Loans Arena. The Warriors are trying to become the first N.B.A. team to complete the playoffs with a 16-0 record. Advertisement “Close-out games are always the hardest,” Green said. “They’re going to come out and fight. We know we have to try to pull a full 48 together if we want to close this thing out.” If Green’s numbers have been understated in the finals — he is averaging 9.7 points, 8.3 rebounds and 5 assists while shooting just 34.5 percent from the field — he is still having an outsize influence. In the postseason, Golden State has outscored its opponents by 227 points when Green has been on the court, giving him the second-best plus/minus on the team, behind Stephen Curry (plus 267). At the same time, Green has continued to relish his role as the team’s emotional center — same as ever. “He’s a natural leader, and he continues to refine the way he does it,” the assistant coach Ron Adams said. Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A year ago, Green had an altogether different experience in the finals. Suspended for Game 5 against the Cavaliers after accumulating too many flagrant fouls over the course of the playoffs, Green was barred from even watching the game at Oracle Arena. He attended a baseball game instead. The Warriors lost without him — a turning point in the series. The Cavaliers went on to win the title in seven games. It was an experience that stuck with Green, who has been adamant about never again putting himself in that type of situation. That does not mean he is playing without passion. On Wednesday, late in the first half of the Warriors’ come-from-behind victory in Game 3, Green had a brief meltdown and was whistled for a technical foul. Durant had to pull him away from an official. “He gathered himself, got it together, and we moved on,” Durant said. “It didn’t linger.” For the most part, though, Green has been noticeably less voluble in this series — and somehow less visible, toiling in the shadows cast by teammates like Durant and Curry. But Green is still calculating and cunning. Consider his second-quarter theatrics in Game 3, when he got all over that official and then heard about it from the opposing crowd. Advertisement “I love that,” Green said. “They are amazing. I appreciate those people out there.” While Green genuinely disagrees with many of the calls that go against him, many of his extracurriculars are scripted. He knows how to drive his teammates. “He can get excited about this, that or the other thing,” Adams said. “And sometimes, he’s trying to prove a point. Sometimes, he’s trying to rally his team when he does that. Sometimes, he’s trying to get himself going. But he usually has some method to his actions.” On Thursday, as Green spoke in muted tones about avoiding complacency and about focusing on the task at hand — all very clichéd for someone who typically has an endless stream of sharp opinions — he identified a key to the Warriors’ success this season. “Unselfishness,” Green said. “Guys aren’t worried about who’s taking the shots or who’s doing what at any given point. It’s about us putting ourselves in the best position that we can put ourselves in. I think we have a group of guys who enjoy playing together. We enjoy being around each other. We have fun. And then, also just having a bunch of guys who can make plays.” That was the big question when Durant joined the team last summer: Would these players be willing to make the necessary sacrifices? At the start of the season, Green and the rest of the team’s holdovers could sense Durant’s eagerness to fit in and contribute, which made an enormous difference to them. It was clear that everyone wanted this grand experiment to work. For Green, part of that has meant taking fewer shots and ceding some of the spotlight. But it has all been worth it. “Everybody,” he said, “is looking to make the play for the next guy.” A version of this article appears in print on June 9, 2017, on Page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: This Year, Golden State’s Heart Has a Quieter Beat, but It’s Still Strong.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 