Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAJUNE 4, 2017  OAKLAND, Calif. — After a six-week absence, Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, was back on the bench at Oracle Arena on Sunday for Game 2 of the N.B.A. finals. When his face appeared on the arena’s giant video boards a few minutes before the opening tipoff, the crowd stood and roared. Kerr had been on an indefinite leave as he again sought treatment for chronic pain, stemming from what he has described as botched back surgery. But before Sunday’s game against the Cleveland Cavaliers, Kerr said that he felt well enough to return to the bench and that he intended to coach the Warriors for the remainder of the finals. “I wanted to string together a few good days,” he said before Game 2, which the Warriors won, 132-113. “I did that.” Dressed in team sweats and sounding upbeat, Kerr made the announcement at a news conference about two hours before the game. He said he had not had a chance to inform his players of his decision. But he suspected that they already knew. Advertisement “Because they’re all on their phones all the time,” Kerr said. Kerr stepped away from his day-to-day duties with the team in late April after the Warriors won the first two games of their first-round series against the Portland Trail Blazers. Advertisement At the time, Kerr said he still had pain — including headaches — from complications connected to his surgery in 2015. On May 5, Kerr had a procedure at Duke University to repair a spinal fluid leak. Since then, he had been working with the team at practice and in the locker room but had not felt well enough to coach from the bench. He left those duties to Mike Brown, an assistant who became the team’s acting head coach in Kerr’s absence. Under Brown, the Warriors won all 11 of their games — including Thursday’s finals opener against the Cavaliers. With a deadpan delivery, Kerr said the team had clearly been “falling apart at the seams” as he watched from afar. In truth, the Warriors continued to play their familiar brand of high-octane basketball. Brown had said that he was merely a placeholder until Kerr felt able to return. “He’s perfect as my right-hand man,” Kerr said. “He’s such a good coach and a good person. And the way he’s handled this whole thing is incredible — just the humility and yet the confidence with which he took the reins. Players appreciate him; the staff does; I certainly do. He’s an amazing guy, and we’re lucky to have him.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kerr said that he began to mull a return on Saturday but that he waited to see how he felt on Sunday morning. “I feel like it’s back to where it was before the Portland series,” Kerr said. “And as I told you guys when I stepped aside in Portland, I don’t know what happened. I don’t know why things got worse. But since that time — and it’s probably been five, six weeks — I’ve gotten a lot better, and I feel like I’m back to the baseline of where I was during the regular season, when I coached every game.” Advertisement Cleveland Coach Tyronn Lue said he had been texting with Kerr in recent weeks. “Steve Kerr’s a guy I respected even before he started coaching,” Lue said before the game. “So it’s good to have him back over there.” Kerr has guided the Warriors to the N.B.A. finals in each of his three seasons as the head coach, and they won the championship two years ago. He missed more than half of last season after a back operation and a follow-up procedure. He returned to the bench to help steer the Warriors to a league-record 73 regular-season wins before they lost to the Cavaliers in the finals. On Sunday, Kerr joked that he would break out an inspirational speech — something along the lines of “win one for the Gipper” — in the locker room before the game. “Maybe get a little teary-eyed,” he said. “Implore them to win it for me, because it’s not important for them to win it for themselves.” Of course, he did none of that. “Nothing really changes for our players,” Kerr said. “We’re doing the same stuff, and the strategy remains the same. We’ll keep it rolling, and hopefully we’ll keep playing well.” A version of this article appears in print on June 5, 2017, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: After Weeks Of Anguish, Kerr Claims A Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 