Advertisement By SARAH LYALLJUNE 9, 2017  CLEVELAND — Sports arenas for successful franchises can sometimes seem interchangeably generic, all noise and flash and money. But if there are two places that can be said to reflect the character and ethos of the teams that play within them, they are surely the basketball arenas in Oakland, Calif., and Cleveland. You might start with their names: Oracle Arena, named after a multinational computer technology company based in the rich community of Redwood Shores, Calif.; and Quicken Loans Arena, named after a national mortgage company based in downtown Detroit. (Some people in Cleveland call it the Q, but Quicken Loans it is.) As is so often the case with places in California, Oracle is situated right off the highway. It’s hard to get there without driving or using public transportation. In Cleveland, by contrast, Quicken Loans is right downtown, next to the Cuyahoga River. Speak to Warriors fans at a home game, and they’ll tell you straight out how much they love their team and who wouldn’t? Have the same conversation in Cleveland, and Cavaliers fans will answer with passionate reveries about their love for their city, and how city and team are symbiotically linked. Advertisement They’ll mention Cleveland’s old reputation as a symbol of backwater parochialism and Rust Belt decline, and how all that has changed with a resurgent economy, the improved fortunes of the Cavaliers and also the Indians, and the Republican National Committee’s decision to hold its convention here last year. Advertisement “Cleveland had so many problems,” said Sandy Smart, 71, who was at Game 3 of the N.B.A. finals here on Wednesday. She brought up two classic incidents that still haunt the public imagination: the time the Cuyahoga caught fire, in 1969, and the time the mayor’s wife declined an invitation to the White House in order to attend her regular bowling league, in 1972. “But now the city is really wonderful,” Smart said. The contrast between the two arenas has become only more striking now that they are the sites for this year’s finals. Last Sunday, when Golden State was pounding Cleveland in Game 2 — the Warriors now lead the series, three games to one — the mood at Oracle Arena was brash, self-congratulatory, unsurprised, as if the Warriors’ dominance was as much a natural right as the shiny presence of the Teslas, Priuses and Porsches that dotted the parking lot outside. Quicken Loans on Wednesday, though, was a sea of slogans about the team’s (and the city’s) underdog status. Many fans wore T-shirts saying, “Defend the Land,” with “Land” being both a nickname for Cleveland and a signifier of the proprietary feeling its residents have for their town. “Cleveland Against the World,” it said on the Jumbotron, which is so enormous here that it’s known as the Humongotron.  “There will always be doubters,” the board said at another point, “but Cleveland fans stick together.” Oracle Arena can have a kind of improvisational feel, as if it just now happens to be home to the endless party that is the world’s best basketball team. But it never lets you forget that its fans live in Northern California, with all its attendant preoccupations. “A lot of people want gluten-free hot dogs or burgers,” said Delilah Gaden, who works at an Oracle concession stand featuring (healthy) grilled food. “Or they’ll ask what kind of oil is in the popcorn, or if we use real butter.” The veggie burgers are the same kind you can get at Whole Foods, Gaden noted, adding, “Just because they’re fans, doesn’t mean they can’t also be vegetarians.” That makes sense, said Mark Figueiredo, 46, a businessman and longtime Warriors fan who was buying Chinese food (MSG-free) at Oracle during Game 2 on Sunday. “A lot of people are allergic to gluten,” he said. “It’s the difference between the Bay Area and the Midwest. Vegans, vegetarians, fruitarians, pescatarians — we have it all here.” (That, and Larry Page of Google, who was sitting in front of him at Game 1, he said.) Advertisement At Quicken Loans, even the food stands were Cleveland-themed. Cleveland on the Rocks was the name of a bar in the concourse, with “on the” written in tiny letters, inside the “o” in Rocks. Another stand featured “The Best Chefs in the Land” and their signature dishes, including “Chef Heather Haviland’s Reuben Balls,” basically Reuben sandwiches shaped into balls, coated with bread crumbs and deep fried. “Sure, people here might ask about the ingredients if they have a peanut allergy or are vegetarians,” said John Kitko, a salesman for a company selling erosion-control geotextile products, who was raising money for charity by volunteering at the Quicken Loans Quaker Steak and Lube concession stand. (“Lube,” in this context, means beer.) “But in Cleveland you’re going to get some nice cooked kielbasa and pierogies.” The songs blaring from the loudspeakers before Game 3 included “Don’t Stop Believin’ ” by Journey and “Dream On” by Aerosmith. When the drum fill in Phil Collins’s “In the Air Tonight” came on, a whole hallway of Cleveland men began reflexively air-drumming. The Warriors have their share of passionate fans who stuck around during the ignominious years and are now reveling in their current great fortune. But the come-lately fans from the Bay Area’s high-tech world, old-time fans say, have changed the experience, pricing out some of the locals. Tickets for the finals, they said, can easily resell for $5,000. Some fans wistfully recalled the days when you could buy a family package — four seats, four meals — for under $100. “If you’re a middle-class kid, you can’t afford it anymore,” said Albert Blackwell, 60, a doorman in his 17th season as a fan, whose Game 2 ticket was a gift from a friend. At Oracle, people were not spending a ton of time thinking about Cleveland. But in Cleveland, at least in the fans’ minds, the contrast was striking. “They’re shiny and glossy and fueled by tech money and start-ups,” said Pradeep Giri, 33, a manager at PricewaterhouseCooper. “But we’re a lunch-pail, blue-collar team. They have Eddy Cue and the Apple and Google execs down on the floor. Here we have the guy who owns 20 car dealerships.” In 2019, the Warriors are set to move to a brand-new arena in San Francisco.  But Quicken Loans Arena has tied its identity not just to the Cavaliers, but to Cleveland itself. Advertisement “The popular television show ‘The Drew Carey Show’ was set in Cleveland,” you read above one of the arena gates. “Cleveland’s Willard Park is home to the world’s largest rubber stamp,” it says atop one of the women’s bathrooms on the main concourse. And down the hall: “Cleveland’s own Arthur Lovett invented the first padded bicycle seat in 1897.” As heartbroken as they were after the loss in Game 3, Cleveland fans said there was no need to lose faith in a city that has more than proved its worth to the rest of the country. “We’ve had such a good run,” Giri said. “We won the finals last year. The fact we made it this far, this is gravy.” So the Cleveland fans streamed out of the Q, dejected but not despairing. Their faith in the Cavaliers would more than pay off in Game 4 on Friday night. And besides, they also have the Indians. (Plus the Browns, a fixer-upper team that managed to win just one game last year, losing the other 15.) “Cleveland has an identity, a brotherhood — we’ve been through so much,” said Joel Bailey, 55, an executive in an electric company. (“Don’t hold that against me.”) “We’re Charlie Brown, and one day the Great Pumpkin will come.” A version of this article appears in print on June 10, 2017, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Cleveland or California,No Mistaking the Home Team.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 