Advertisement    Scott Cacciola     ON PRO BASKETBALL MAY 21, 2017  SAN ANTONIO — It sounds silly at this point, with the Golden State Warriors on the cusp of a third straight trip to the N.B.A. finals, to suggest that they faced challenges at the start of the season. Does possessing too much talent count as a challenge? Nevertheless, there was a chance, however slim, that this whole grand enterprise could have blown up. That the team’s vast assemblage of stars would have trouble sharing one basketball. That Kevin Durant would rub the team’s holdovers the wrong way. Or that a new batch of reserves would refuse to make the necessary sacrifices. Ron Adams, an assistant coach, referred to the unique “human dynamics” at work and described the season as a fascinating experiment in team chemistry. In so many ways, it could have soured. Instead, the Warriors are sailing through the playoffs with the help of seven players — and an associate head coach — who were not employed by the team at this time last season. Yes, it obviously helps when one of those new players is Durant, an all-World scoring cyborg. But the Warriors are a different team from what they were a year ago. They have only made the transition look seamless. Advertisement “This is such a selfless group,” said forward Matt Barnes, who signed with the Warriors in March. “When you’ve got superstars sacrificing and diving on the floor and doing whatever it takes to win, it’s easy for a role player to fit right in.” Advertisement The San Antonio Spurs can sense the sad end coming. At full strength, they probably could have pushed the Warriors in the Western Conference finals — or at least made more of these games competitive. But the Spurs have been gutted by injuries and are in danger of being swept after their 120-108 loss in Game 3 on Saturday night. Tony Parker, the starting point guard, ruptured his left quadriceps tendon in the conference semifinals. Kawhi Leonard, a finalist for the N.B.A.’s Most Valuable Player Award, has missed the last two games with a sprained left ankle. And David Lee, a key reserve, left for the locker room in a wheelchair after injuring his left knee in Game 3. Manu Ginobili, making his 15th straight postseason appearance for San Antonio, did the math for Game 4, set for Monday night at AT&T Center. “For us to win,” he said, “we have to play at a 10 level, and they have to play at a 7.” If the playoffs have been a well-advertised bore — and this series has not helped — there is at least the overwhelming likelihood of a rematch between the Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals. After losing to the Cavaliers last season, the Warriors reshaped themselves by adding Durant and by overhauling their collection of role players. Everyone adapted. “I think you just kind of learn,” said James Michael McAdoo, a reserve forward in his third season with the team. “Everyone here wants to be successful. Everyone here wants to win championships. So everyone understands that there have to be sacrifices.” That word — sacrifice — is used often by the players, which might seem counterintuitive. After all, no team scored more than the Warriors during the regular season. There are plenty of shots to go around. But that is the point. They have turned sharing-is-caring into high art. The ball seldom sticks. It zips from one set of hands to the next, and the starters set the tone. “They’re the most unselfish people I’ve played with in my life,” JaVale McGee said. “They’re always looking. If you’re wide open, they’ll pass it. They don’t force shots.” Advertisement McGee was one of the (relative) newcomers who made an impact in Game 3. Starting in place of the injured Zaza Pachulia, McGee scored all 16 of his points in the first half. David West, another newcomer, had 6 points and 5 assists off the bench. Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In some ways, McGee and West could not be more different. Earlier this season, McGee had blankets made that featured the dozing face of Draymond Green and distributed them to his teammates. West, on the other hand, is known for his intensity — the type of player who will scream, “You guys need to relax!” in the huddle without quite grasping the irony. But the Warriors make it all work, blending their personalities and skill sets for the greater good. “Everybody has a voice,” said Mike Brown, who joined the Warriors as their associate head coach last summer. Brown has taken on more responsibility in recent weeks. When Coach Steve Kerr stepped away from his day-to-day duties in the first round to address continuing medical problems, Brown became the acting coach on the bench. He has since guided the team to nine straight victories. He, too, has altered parts of his approach to match the system already in place. “The one thing that was extremely unique and kind of hard to understand right away is how loose it is here,” Brown said, recalling his early days with the organization. “It’s extremely loose, but in a good way, and it fits this group of players. The more loose your organization is or your team is, the more ownership you’re giving your group.” The Warriors, who blast music at their workouts and warm up by launching halfcourt heaves, are a democracy. The players hold one another accountable. They practice the best form of peer pressure. At the same time, Adams could not overstate the outsize role Durant, one of the new guys, had played in ensuring that the team went about its usual business. “For a player of his stature, it’s remarkable to me,” Adams said. “He just wanted to fit in.” A version of this article appears in print on May 22, 2017, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Democracy, It Turns Out, Suits the Warriors Just Fine.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 