Advertisement Supported by Warriors 118, Cavaliers 113 | Golden State leads series, 3-0 By Scott Cacciola CLEVELAND — LeBron James had stuffed another playoff game full of his usual brilliance. He scored. He passed. He rebounded. He defended. After two lopsided losses to start the N.B.A. finals, the Cavaliers fell in line behind him as they spent much of Wednesday evening fending off the Golden State Warriors. It was basketball at its best. Both teams exchanged ferocious blows. Both teams responded. But in the final minute, James — perhaps the most fearsome player on the planet — found himself in an unusual position: helpless. He could only watch as Kevin Durant of the Warriors sank a 3-pointer over the top of him, one final jolt from which the Cavaliers could not recover. The Warriors kept their air of invincibility intact with a 118-113 victory that put them on the brink of their second championship in three seasons. “I don’t want to relax,” Durant said. “It’s not over.” Durant’s 3-pointer with 45.3 seconds remaining was the go-ahead basket as the Warriors scored the game’s final 11 points. It was a stunning display of offensive pyrotechnics that dovetailed with the Cavaliers’ late-game collapse, a disheartening result that almost felt unfair, unjust, undeserved. The crowd at Quicken Loans Arena shuffled to the exits in disbelief. “We thought we were going to win,” James said. “We had an opportunity.” James collected 39 points, 11 rebounds and 9 assists, and Kyrie Irving added 38 points — and still, it was not enough. Not against the Warriors and their all-world assemblage of talent. Durant finished with 31 points. Klay Thompson scored 30 points for Golden State, and Stephen Curry had 26 points and 13 rebounds. As this best-of-seven series moves to Game 4, scheduled for Friday night in Cleveland, the only question left seems to be whether the Warriors can become the first team in N.B.A. history to finish the playoffs with a 16-0 record. They are one win away, of course. It would be the starkest symbol of their dominance this season. “Having a close game down the stretch — honestly, it’s been a while,” Curry said. The bad news for Cleveland: No team in the finals has ever rebounded from a 3-0 series deficit to win the championship. Twelve teams have tried, and 12 teams have failed. In addition, the Warriors have not lost a game since April 10. They would need to lose four in the next 11 days to miss out on another title. It seems — what is the word? — unlikely. The Warriors entered the game mindful of what had happened against the Cavaliers in Game 3 of the finals last season. After losing the first two games of the series, the Cavaliers came out and crushed the Warriors by 30 here — a startling result that gave the Cavaliers new life. They went on to win the championship, their first, in seven games. “I think we’re better from our experiences,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said. “You win a championship, then lose one in heartbreaking fashion — you’ve pretty much seen everything at that point.” On Wednesday, J. R. Smith gave the Cavaliers a 6-point lead when he sank a 3-pointer with just over three minutes remaining. Cleveland would not score again. Golden State gladly filled the void. Curry made a layup, and then Durant connected along the baseline. After Kyle Korver of the Cavaliers missed an open 3-pointer, Durant spotted up from the top of the arc — swish — for a 114-113 lead. Irving left a jump shot short, and Durant and Curry finished the game with four straight free throws. “It wasn’t our smartest game that we played all year,” Kerr said, “but it was maybe our toughest.” Before the game, James talked about improving his own play, about inspiring his teammates and about focusing on the task at hand. At the same time, he appeared to mix resolve with a hint of resignation. In the first two games of the series, James averaged 28.5 points, 13 rebounds and 11 assists — and the Cavaliers got clobbered both times. “I leave everything that I have out on the floor every night,” James said, “so I’m always satisfied with the way I play.” As the Cavaliers took the court for warm-ups, the sweet beat of Journey’s classic rock ballad “Don’t Stop Believin’” filled the arena. These were desperate times. The home crowd, which was decked out in matching black T-shirts, watched the first quarter play out at a furious pace. Sure enough, the Cavaliers — and James, in particular — gave the fans reason to believe. He scored 16 points on 7-of-8 shooting before he took a seat with 1 minute 49 seconds left in the first quarter. “I gave everything that I had,” James said. What happened next reinforced the point that the Cavaliers cannot survive with James on the bench, not even for a few measly seconds. Curry drained consecutive 3-pointers as the Warriors closed the quarter on a 10-0 run. The building fell silent. Thompson, who had struggled with his shooting for much of the playoffs, helped ignite the Warriors, scoring 16 points in the first quarter. At one point early in the second quarter, James was 9 of 10 from the field — and the Warriors led by 3. That was a bad sign for Cleveland. But James kept plugging. After Durant inadvertently hit him in the throat, James gathered himself and drove for a reverse layup. He was in the midst of another tour de force. Leaving nothing to chance, Cavaliers Coach Tyronn Lue left him on the court for the entire second quarter. The Warriors took a 67-61 lead into the third quarter before the Cavaliers threw everything they could at them. Irving dashed through the lane for a layup. Kevin Love made a 3-pointer. Smith emerged from obscurity to sink one of his own. It was a momentous stretch of team basketball for the Cavaliers, who had been leaning so heavily on James. For most of the second half, it looked like enough — enough, at least, to steal one game and make the series competitive. Against any other team, that probably would have been the case. But not against the Warriors. Not this season. Not with history on the horizon.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 