Advertisement    Scott Cacciola     ON PRO BASKETBALL JUNE 11, 2017  OAKLAND, Calif. — When J. R. Smith arrived for Game 4 of the N.B.A. finals on Friday night, he was surprised by the low-key atmosphere in the Cleveland Cavaliers’ locker room at Quicken Loans Arena. “Guys were laughing, joking and listening to music, just treating it as a normal game,” he said. “I kind of liked the aura and what we had going on, so I didn’t really say anything and just went with it.” At that late stage, as they dealt with the prospect of being swept by the Golden State Warriors, the Cavaliers were curiously carefree. The odds against them were so long that the pressure had somehow lifted: What did they have to lose? All the Cavaliers could do was go out and play. For Smith, in particular, it was as if school had been let out for summer. Without hesitation, he launched the game’s first shot — a 3-pointer, because what else? — and buried it. He kept shooting, and so did the rest of the Cavaliers. What resulted was an emphatic home victory that revived the series — and gave the Cavaliers hope as they ready themselves for Game 5 on Monday night at Oracle Arena. Advertisement “As individuals, everybody plays for something,” said Smith, who scored 15 points, all on 3-pointers, in Game 4. “For whatever reason, we bottled it up and were able to put that out there on the court.” Advertisement The Cavaliers, who trail in the best-of-seven series by three games to one, will need another solid effort from Smith, who has been his normally inconsistent self. It is almost obligatory to point out that Smith has never been known as one of the most dependable players in the N.B.A. But such are the dire circumstances facing the Cavaliers against an awesome opponent: As much as they have leaned on LeBron James and Kyrie Irving to deliver their usual brilliance, the Cavaliers cannot compete without contributions from role players like Smith. “We talked to him about trying to make plays,” Coach Tyronn Lue said. “Like, ‘I need you to shoot the basketball and be a scorer.’” Smith had a frustrating regular season. After he fractured his right thumb in December, he missed 36 games. Once he returned, he struggled to find his familiar form, shooting 35.5 percent from the field for the remainder of the season. He had his share of clunkers, including a 4-of-17 effort against the Los Angeles Clippers. But the Cavaliers were hopeful that Smith would round into shape in time for the playoffs. After all, he was a key part of their championship run last season — especially against the Warriors in the finals. In the Cavaliers’ four wins during that series, Smith averaged 14 points while shooting 43.5 percent from the floor and 40 percent from 3-point range. In their three losses, he averaged 6 points while shooting 31.6 percent from the floor and 26.7 percent from 3-point range. His importance was difficult to overstate. Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It has been much the same tightrope walk for the Cavaliers this time around. Lue actually wants Smith to be more aggressive, even as Smith — who has adopted a far more judicious approach since his gluttonous days with the Knicks — seeks to find the right balance. “I’m not going to force anything just for the sake of shooting,” Smith said. (We swear, he actually used those words.) In the first two games of the finals, Smith shot 1 of 6 from the floor and scored 3 points. The Cavaliers lost by a combined total of 41 points. He was much improved in Game 3, scoring 16 points before Cleveland succumbed to Golden State in a 5-point loss. Advertisement In the immediate wake of that game, a post appeared on Smith’s Twitter account: “Cavs in 7.” Smith quickly deleted the tweet and claimed that he had been hacked. “I’ve been known to do certain things and send some pretty crazy tweets in the past,” he said. “But obviously, I would know better than that.” Smith could not elaborate on the hack — “I’m not a technology guy like that,” he said — but it was far from the worst message that could have emanated from his account: Confidence in the face of adversity? The nerve! In fact, given Smith’s spotty record on social media (feel free to hop online and search), the tweet’s seeming naïveté was almost charming. None of the 126 teams that have lost the first three games of an N.B.A. playoff series have ever come back to win, let alone done it in the finals against a team the caliber of these Warriors. The Cavaliers are at least still in the running thanks to their stunning victory in Game 4. Smith needed 16 seconds to make his first 3-pointer, which seemed to boost his confidence. Early in the second quarter, with the shot clock winding down, he launched a 3-pointer from a corner of the Cavaliers’ midcourt logo: swish. It was not the deepest 3-pointer he had ever made. “But it’s up there,” he said. “Ever since I was growing up, my dad always told me, ‘There’s not a shot you can’t make when you walk in the gym.’” On Monday, Smith will take his mercurial road show to Oracle Arena, where the usual suspects — LeBron and Kyrie, Steph and K. D. — will slug it out. But in his own way, for better or for worse, Smith could wind up making all the difference. A version of this article appears in print on June 12, 2017, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Cavaliers’ Cavalry Is a Dangerous Shooter With Nothing to Lose.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 