Advertisement FEB. 2, 2018  RE: Cryptocurrency Steven Johnson wrote about the greater potential for blockchain. This is one of the best articles ever written on the potential of the technology that underlies Bitcoin. People are getting distracted by valuations of cryptographic currencies, but that’s not the point: The value of this technology is in self-executing contracts. This technology can replace banks, stock exchanges, insurance companies and other record-keeping organizations. Why would you need to do an I.P.O. if you can raise money through an I.C.O.? Why would you need a bank if you can keep your money securely in cryptographic currencies? This technology is set to disrupt and transform industries. This is bigger than the internet. Ravi Srivastava, West Hartford, Conn. Speaking as someone with a fair amount of academic background in distributed systems and databases, this entire debate is exasperating. Decentralization has been possible on the internet for decades without blockchain. The problem has been entirely a matter of economic, political and social choices to preference private, closed-source and centralized solutions because they’re easy and require zero effort. Moreover, and this is the critical mistake this article makes, the previous generation of web technologies (from Google forward) all uncritically tried to solve social and political problems with technology, a fool’s errand. Take the medical records example given in the article. The problem isn’t trust, security or verifiability, the things that blockchain can solve. The problem, contrary to what the author says, is actually that no one in the market has any incentive to interoperate. This sort of techno-optimism needs to die on the vine. Stop looking to technology to fix society. Go out and engage. Oreoluwa Babarinsa, Atlanta RE: Oregon Jennifer Percy wrote about the fear of the federal government among some ranchers in eastern Oregon. I grew up in rural Colorado and have lived in the western United States nearly my entire life. To a degree, I get where the people written about in this article are coming from; the West they believe in — remote and desolate, yet awesomely beautiful and resource-rich, far from that icky urban environment — is a familiar, comfortable home. But much of what they believe is demonstrably false. If all the federal land out West that’s not a military installation or a national park were devolved to the states or to private landowners, the locals would probably not stand to gain anything. If the states were to end up with federal lands, grazing and mineral-extraction fees would almost certainly go up, and by quite a bit. Could the federal government do a better job coordinating with local interests when it comes to the use of federal lands? Yes, but that doesn’t equate to the right to use the land to the point where it can no longer sustain either cattle or indigenous fauna or where streams that so many rely on for drinking water are polluted. Mark Janes, Guerneville, Calif. Like the author, I was born and raised in rural Oregon, and I share her idyllic love of the natural environment and the people of my home state. However, I took issue with the descriptions of the people at large, particularly the careers of the people of rural Oregon as stereotypes of a dying, white working class. There is a description of the people gathered at the high school in Redmond, Ore., as “ranchers, miners and loggers.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that the people of Deschutes County in rural Oregon, which includes Redmond and the author’s hometown, Tumalo, do the same work as the rest of the country. Most people, at 16.6 percent, are in fields related to “office and administrative support” (above the national average), and 0.2 percent are in “farming, fishing and forestry” (just below the national average of 0.3 percent). The people of rural Oregon work largely the same jobs that the rest of the country does: food service, sales, health, education, construction. I think it’s important when speaking of economic insecurities to accurately describe the economic reality that these stories exist in. Quincy Hayden, Springfield, Ore. Illustrations by Giacomo Gambineri Send your thoughts to magazine@nytimes.com. Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week. A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page MM10 of the Sunday Magazine.  Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 