Advertisement Supported by Asia and Australia Edition By Penn Bullock and Charles McDermid Good morning.  Here’s what you need to know: • The era of the strongman? China’s surprise move to lift presidential term limits was another power grab by a leader, the latest sign of the world’s tilt toward authoritarian governance. As our reporter writes, autocrats’ power is growing from Russia to Turkey to Southeast Asia. Worse, critics say, the U.S. lacks the moral authority — or even the inclination under President Trump — to oppose the world’s slide toward hard-line control. (“I think Trump is probably jealous,” one analyst said.) China’s censors, meanwhile, worked to erase online discontent about President Xi Jinping’s move amid speculation that it might betray weakness in the Communist Party. And we unpacked the doctrines of Xi Jinping Thought, China’s new reigning ideology, and revisited Mr. Xi’s rise to power. _____ • South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, urged the U.S. and North Korea to start talking, but neither side seemed willing to budge from preconditions that have so far made dialogue impossible. The U.S. reiterated that it was only interested in negotiations aimed at denuclearization, and the North again asserted that its nuclear arsenal was off the table. Analysts said Mr. Moon was running out of time to make good on his vision for inter-Korean cooperation. _____ • The Boko Haram fighters arrived at the school with guns blazing. Horrifying details are still emerging of a kidnapping last week in northern Nigeria. As many as 110 girls have been missing since the raid on Feb. 19. Nigerians were all the more outraged that the attack mirrored a similar Boko Haram kidnapping of nearly 300 schoolgirls in 2014. Officials say more than 100 of those girls are still missing. President Muhammadu Buhari called the latest abduction a “national disaster.” _____ • There was no end to the horror in Syria, despite a U.N. Security Council resolution calling for a cease-fire. The U.N. secretary general, António Guterres, demanded the resolution be respected to allow relief aid and evacuations for 400,000 people trapped in Ghouta, a besieged suburb of Damascus. One resident called it “an uninhabitable hell.” Russia ordered a daily humanitarian truce, but it was unclear what effect it might have on the Syrian government, which continues to rain destruction on the area. Above, victims of a suspected chlorine attack in Ghouta. _____ • “Incredibly and relentlessly creepy.” That was one reaction to an Australian television interviewer’s sit-down with New Zealand’s leader, Jacinda Ardern, and her husband, both above. Charles Wooley, of “60 Minutes,” invited charges of sexism by calling Ms. Ardern the “most attractive” prime minister he had met, and shocked the couple by suggesting there was speculation about their unborn child’s date of conception. Ms. Ardern later said she was “taken aback, but not offended.” Mr. Wooley was unrepentant, calling the criticism “a bit Orwellian.” _____ • “Black Panther” may soon join the $1 billion club. The Marvel superhero movie has earned more than $700 million in global ticket sales in 12 days, far outshining competition like the R-rated comedy “Game Night” and the sci-fi movie “Annihilation,” which has impressed critics more than moviegoers. And “Black Panther” still has a lot further to go, with its arrival due in Japan on Thursday and China on March 9. _____ • Cryptocurrencies and blockchain were meant to be great equalizers. Instead, women are finding that the gold rush is already stacked against them. • Saudi Arabia is making overtures to China and Russia for help in diversifying its oil-dependent economy. • The Weinstein Company said that it would file for bankruptcy.  • Samsung unveiled its latest Galaxy smartphone at the GSMA World Congress in Barcelona. (It features an upgraded camera.) • U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • A powerful 7.5-magnitude earthquake hit Papua New Guinea, causing landslides, damaging buildings, and closing oil and gas operations. [Reuters] • The police in Japan arrested a U.S. tourist for the murder of a Japanese woman he met on a dating app. The man admitted to dismembering the woman and scattering her body parts in rural areas, the police said. [Kyodo] • In Australia, five people were rescued and thousands of homes in southeast Queensland were without power as intense rain lashed the region. [ABC] • Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, faces intense backlash for a video clip showing a traumatized 6-year-old girl who wept as he kissed her and proclaimed she would be honored if killed in combat. [The New York Times] • King penguins are in hot water. A study projects that more than two-thirds of the species could be threatened, as warming seas force them to swim farther to find food. [The New York Times] • Ng On-yee of Hong Kong became the first Asian woman to reach No. 1 in the World Ladies Billiards and Snooker rankings. [BBC] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Whether you’re finishing winter or heading into it, simple changes can lower your heating bill. • One powerful bit of advice: If it’s not a “100 percent yes,” it’s a “no.” • Change up fish night by pan-roasting salmon with jalapeño. • Move over, Marie Kondo. Japanese self-help has another best-selling queen: Eiko of Osaka, who teaches “bounce yoga.” She knows that you can do the splits in just a month — and that you’ll conquer your insecurities on the way. • A village in Louisiana is fighting for its life. The community of Jean Lafitte is the focus of the first of a three-part special report about the state’s vanishing coast, and the people who live there. • And as he watched Manchester United beat Chelsea, our soccer correspondent wondered whether financial strength was all a club needed to satisfy fans in the YouTube age. The Leaning Tower of Pisa has had its distinctive tilt since shortly after construction began in the 12th century, but it was on this day in 1964 that the Italian government decided things had gone too far. Despite its location in the Piazza dei Miracoli (the Square of Miracles), the tower had become one miracle that needed a little human help to survive. To prevent the loss of a national treasure — and tourism gold mine — the authorities in Italy asked for suggestions on how to correct the tower’s 13- to 14-foot lean from perpendicular. But people had been offering advice long before that. The Times reported in 1972 that, in the previous 60 years, more than 200,000 people had sent letters to the mayor of Pisa with their thoughts on how to save the monument. And previous attempts had gone awry, most notably one from Benito Mussolini in 1934. The Italian dictator decided a leaning tower wasn’t a fitting symbol for his country, so he had holes drilled through the floor and 80 tons of concrete poured into the foundations. It promptly lurched another few inches toward the ground. The tower was finally stabilized in 2001, after an 11-year, $26 million restoration project. Anna Schaverien contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.  And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.  Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 