Advertisement Supported by Stocks have risen for so long and with such steadiness that Wall Street is becoming nervous. What’s an investor to do? For insight, check out our quarterly report on investing.  By Jeff Sommer Even if you don’t follow financial markets closely, if you have money in those markets it is worth considering, every so often, where you have been and where the currents may be taking you.  In a nutshell, the stock market in the United States has generated enormous wealth for investors, and in recent months it has roared ahead with scarcely a setback, raising questions about how sustainable those gains really are. Bonds haven’t performed as spectacularly as stocks. There have been signs that fixed-income markets just may be ready for a long-awaited shift in direction. We’ve selected nine articles with reporting and analysis on where the markets have been and some clues on where they may be heading. Together the selection provides an introduction to investing. We hope that at least some of these articles will entertain you as well.  A rare calm has settled over the stock market, which has been prospering with barely any downturns. That condition is highly unusual, and some fear that it raises the odds that share prices will descend.  Read more » Green bond funds seek securities with clear environmental benefits. Their managers chase the promise of a double bottom line: growing returns and falling carbon emissions.  Read more » Investing in Bitcoin might make you rich, sure. But how much do you know about tulips? No bubble is too big to burst, our columnist says.  Read more » After a big year for stocks in China and India, emerging market stock funds are attracting attention from value investors who have been rummaging in staid sectors like manufacturing, mining and finance.  Read more » Artificial intelligence programs are becoming increasingly useful. They are beginning to help fund managers run their portfolios. But will they be good enough to replace them?  Read more » There are many ways of scoring outsize returns. Three top-performing funds did it in the last three months of 2017 by focusing on small-cap stocks like a timber company, a cabinet manufacturer and an online lender.  Read more » A new book promises to be “a total beginner’s guide to getting good with money.” It does a good job, though our reviewer has a few misgivings.  Read more » The breakaway climb of growth stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google has unbalanced many investor portfolios. Is it time to trim tech and tilt back to value?  Read more » Bond yields have been rising but from very low levels, creating a challenging environment for money making. The recently enacted tax package could be a moderate benefit for corporate bonds. Small portfolio tweaks, emerging markets and money market funds are options — but prospects for big profits are rare.  Read more » Jeff Sommer writes Strategies, a column on markets, finance and the economy. He also edits business news. Previously, he was a national editor. At Newsday, he was the foreign editor and a correspondent in Asia and Eastern Europe.@jeffsommer•Facebook Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 